We're happy to announce the release of Pellet 2.1. This release is
available for download at the usual location:

  http://clarkparsia.com/pellet/download

Since the last major point release, we closed 26 tickets, including
numerous enhancements and bug fixes. Please see CHANGES.txt in the
distribution for a complete change log; some highlights include:

* Support for Terp syntactic sugar: Manchester Syntax in SPARQL
  queries; see *.terp files in examples/data for examples. For
  example, query two versions of the same query to find all 
  people who work for an organization:

  Standard SPARQL syntax
  ----------------------  
  SELECT ?person 
  WHERE {?person a [owl:intersectionOf (:Person
         [owl:onProperty :worksFor ;
          owl:someValuesFrom :Organization])].
        } 

  Terp syntax
  -----------------
  SELECT ?person 
  WHERE {?person a (:Person and (:worksFor some :Organization)).}

  Terp makes SPARQL queries of OWL easier, more comprehensible, 
  and more concise.

* Disk persistence of classification and realization results via 
  OWLAPI 3.0 when using Pellet's incremental classifier (available 
  via command-line in a future release).

* New datatype reasoner implementation that is more complete, more
  performant, and more correct compared to earlier versions of
  Pellet's datatype reasoner.

* Substantially complete OWL2 support; please report missing OWL2
  features as bugs to pellet-users mailing list.

* New command-line subcommand (pellet info) that reports ontology 
  information, statistics, metadata, including OWL2 profile 
  information.

* Bug fixes as described in
  http://clark-parsia.trac.cvsdude.com/pellet-devel/report/11
  
We are also releasing two versions of the Protege plug-in for Pellet;
one plug-in for Protege 4.0 and one plug-in for Protege 4.1 Alpha. The
plug-in for Protege 4.1 exposes incremental classifier of Pellet for
updating classification results faster as you edit your ontology in
Protege. These plug-ins are available via the auto-update feature of 
Protege.  
 
Pellet 2.1 is available for use in open source projects under the AGPL
v.3 license; for commercial usage, alternative license terms are
available. Long-term support contracts are available for Pellet. Contact
inquiries@clarkparsia.com for more information about licensing and
commercial support.

Pellet 2.1 is the first release in the new time-based development
process we're now using; three additional quarterly releases are planned
for 2010: 28 June, 27 September, and 20 December.

Please note that this release officially DEPRECATES OWLAPI 2.x support,
which will be removed entirely in a future release, but not before 2.3.
If you have commercial support requirements for OWLAPI < 3.0, please
contact us.

Finally, with the release of Pellet 2.1, we will no longer provide free
technical support of earlier versions via the pellet-users mailing list.
Please upgrade to the latest release if you want technical support on
the mailing list.
