We are happy to announce the release of Pellet 2.2. This release is
available for download at:

  http://clarkparsia.com/pellet/download

Since the 2.1 release, we closed more than 50 tickets, including numerous
bug fixes and performance improvements. Please see CHANGES.txt in the
distribution for a complete change log; some highlights include:

* Classification performance has been improved: the most significant
speedups are for ontologies with large class hierarchies and that use
inverse properties and/or property chains. With the new optimizations,
Pellet 2.2 classifies many ontologies in seconds that Pellet 2.1 didn't
classify in reasonable time.

* Realization performance has been improved: the speedups are most
significant for ontologies where class hierarchy is not tree-like, i.e. some
classes have multiple super classes.

* Persistence of classification results is now available through Pellet
command-line (it's available in Pellet 2.1 and later via OWLAPI). Using the
--persist option with the classify subcommand will save the classification
results in a file; subsequent classifications of the ontology will
incrementally recompute the changes in the ontology and update only the
affected parts of the classification hierarchy.

* Bug fixes as described in
http://clark-parsia.trac.cvsdude.com/pellet-devel/report/11

We are also releasing two versions of the Protege plug-in for Pellet:       
one plug-in for Protege 4.0 and one plug-in for Protege 4.1 Beta. These     
plug-ins are available via the auto-update feature of Protege.              

Pellet 2.2 is available for use in open source projects under the AGPL v.3
license; for commercial usage, alternative license terms are available.
Commercial support contracts are also available for Pellet. Contact
inquiries@clarkparsia.com for more information about licensing and
commercial support.

Two additional quarterly releases of Pellet are planned for 2010: version
2.3 on 27 September and another major release on 20 December.

Finally, with the release of Pellet 2.2, we will no longer provide free
technical support of earlier versions via the pellet-users mailing list.
Please upgrade to the latest release if you want technical support on the
mailing list. If you need support for earlier versions of Pellet, please
contact us directly to arrange support.
